Language review for Mendix Public Cloud (#6587)
mendix/docs: content/en/docs/developerportal/deploy/mendix-cloud-deploy/environments.md

    * Certificates
    * Linked Custom Domains
* **Access Restriction Profiles**

>     * Access Restriction Profiles, including TLS Certificate Profiles and IP Filtering Profiles

Reviewer: Not sure about this change. You are now duplicating "Access Restriction Profiles" and it doesn't seem to add any information.

Were you concerned that there is more to Access Restriction Profiles than just the two things mentioned here?

Author: I agree, this is a bit clunky. I made the change because all the other sub-bullets list the names of the sections within the tab, and that's the name of the section within the the Access Restriction Profiles tab. Looking at it again though, none of the sub-bullets seem to add particularly valuable information. Maybe it's better to just list tab names here, without any sub-bullets?

Reviewer: Sounds good - try that.

* **Permissions**
    * [Node Permissions](/developerportal/deploy/node-permissions/)

>     * Activity

Reviewer: I found it confusing that there are three bullet points which are now **Activity**. (Perhaps only because I am reviewing changes, or perhaps not?). I wonder if we ought to categorize them to make it clearer why they are there?
e.g. Permissions Activity, Deployment Activity, and Services Activity?

* **Deployment Package** name
* **Version** of the deployment package
* **Date** that the deployment package was created
* **Uploaded by** account
* **Expiry date** of the deployment package, if one is set

{{< figure src="/attachments/developerportal/deploy/mendix-cloud-deploy/environments/deployment-package.png" alt="The Deployment Package Repository section" >}}

You can perform the following actions in this section:

* **Create Package From Teamserver** – select a branch to build the revision that it contains
* **Upload** – upload a deployment package from your local device
* **Delete**
* **Details**:
    * View the package size, description, build output, and an overview of the environments that are running the package
    * **Delete Package**
    * **Download** the package
* **Deploy** – transport the package from the Team Server to the selected environment

### 2.2 Environments

The **Environments** section has an overview of all the available environments. The contents of the **Environments** section differ based on whether or not your node supports flexible environments.

#### 2.2.1 Standard Environments

> For standard environments, your node has production and acceptance environments. Optionally, it can also include a test environment.

Reviewer: Do you think we need to have "Optionally," here, or is the optionality carried by the "can"?

Reviewer: Also, I think we should perhaps say
```suggestion
For standard plans, your node has production and acceptance environments. Optionally, it can also include a test environment.
```
Otherwise it gets confusing.

Author: Completely agree on both points. I'll update.

{{< figure src="/attachments/developerportal/deploy/mendix-cloud-deploy/environments/deploy-environments.png" alt="The Environments section for standard environments" >}}

The **Environments** section shows the following details:

* Environment name (for example, **Acceptance**)
* Environment status, indicated by the icon next to the environment name:
    * Green check mark – there are no alerts
    * Orange exclamation mark – there is at least one warning alert, but no critical alerts

>     * Red x – there is at least one critical alert

Reviewer: "Red cross", since we describe the other icons, rather than just showing them?

    
    {{% alert color="info" %}}The environment status is cached; there can be a delay of up to five minutes before the status icon displays a change of status. To see the details of the alerts, click **Alerts**. For more information, see [Alerts](/developerportal/operate/monitoring-application-health/).{{% /alert %}}
    
* **Name** of the deployment package (for example, Main line-1.0.0.20.mda)
* **Version** of the deployment package (for example, 1.0.0.20)

> * **Runtime**, the Studio Pro version with which the app is built (for example, 7.6.0)

Reviewer: Perhaps we should update the image and put some Mendix 10 mdas there instead?
Version 7 is no longer supported!

#### 2.2.2 Flexible Environments {#flexible-environments}

If your Mendix license supports flexible environments, you can define the number and type of environments that you have. You must define at least two environments, one of which must be a production environment. The other environment (or environments) may be designated according to your requirements. For example, you can have a production environment and multiple staging environments if your deployment process requires it.

{{< figure src="/attachments/developerportal/deploy/mendix-cloud-deploy/environments/deploy-flex-environments.png" alt="The Environments section with flexible environments" >}}

For flexible environments, the **Environments** section shows the following details:

* Environment name (for example, **Acceptance**)
* **Prod** indicates whether the environment is a production environment; this is set when the environment is created
* Environment status, indicated by the icon next to the environment name:
    * Green check mark – there are no alerts
    * Orange exclamation mark – there is at least one warning alert, but no critical alerts

>     * Red x – there is at least one critical alert

Reviewer: See above.

    
    {{% alert color="info" %}}The environment status is cached; there can be a delay of up to five minutes before the status icon displays a change of status. To see the details of the alerts, click **Alerts**. For more information, see [Alerts](/developerportal/operate/monitoring-application-health/).{{% /alert %}}
    
* **Name** of the deployment package (for example, Main line-1.0.0.20.mda)
* **Version** of the deployment package (for example, 1.0.0.20)

> * **Runtime**, the Studio Pro version with which the app is built (for example, 7.6.0)

Reviewer: In the image the examples are different from the previous image (e.g. `7.22.2.44474` rather than `7.6.0`), but perhaps we should look at getting a newer image in any case.

Author: Makes sense. I've been wondering if it's okay to make changes in the dummy profile, so I'll make a note to bring this up when we talk this afternoon.

> * **Plan** for the environment; for more information, see [Details](/developerportal/deploy/environments-details/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Plan** for the environment; for more information, see [Environment Details](/developerportal/deploy/environments-details/)
```

{{% /alert %}}

## 3 Custom Domains

In the **Custom Domains** tab, you can manage your custom domain certificates at the application level. You can also see an overview of linked custom domains.

When you need your Mendix app to be accessible via your own URL (for example, `https://myapp.mycompany.com/`), you must provide a custom SSL/TLS certificate for your domain. This enables your Mendix app to be accessible via a secure connection. For more information, see [Custom Domains](/developerportal/deploy/custom-domains/).

## 4 Access Restriction Profiles{#asp}

In the **Access Restriction Profiles** tab, you can manage custom access restriction profiles. These profiles can combine IP range filters and client certificate verification, so that any match on either the IP range or the client certificate will grant access. You can apply access restriction profiles to path-based access restrictions in specific environments of the application.

For details on setting up access restriction profiles, see [Restrict Access for Incoming Requests](/developerportal/deploy/access-restrictions/).

## 5 Permissions{#permissions}

> In the **Permissions** tab, the [Technical Contact](/developerportal/general/app-roles/#technical-contact) and other team members who have the **Manage Permissions** permission can manage various permissions to the environments for each team member. Team members who have the **Deploy, Publish, and Monitor** permission can view the permissions.

Reviewer: Cannot see the the **Deploy, Publish, and Monitor** permission. Is this actually the **Transport Rights** and  **Access to Monitoring** permissions?
![image](https://github.com/mendix/docs/assets/35492184/e2b4f642-cf33-49df-a0a9-56b4ad22b463)

Author: It must be something else—I can view the permissions without those two enabled. I wonder if this is still relevant? I haven't found it anywhere in the Developer Portal.
<img width="879" alt="image" src="https://github.com/mendix/docs/assets/142491015/27d933ca-cca6-48d6-ba7d-3c88ff0671fc">

Author: Looks like it's supposed to be part of the user role, but I'm not seeing it there either: <img width="922" alt="image" src="https://github.com/mendix/docs/assets/142491015/c666048b-e673-47c5-ba98-a9c63fa4e631">

Reviewer: Do you want to ask in #dep Slack channel, or do a bit more research. We could also have a quick meeting to do a bit more research together if that would help.

For details on managing node permissions, see [Node Permissions](/developerportal/deploy/node-permissions/).

## 6 Services{#services}

In the **Services** tab, the Technical Contact can determine which custom services can be used in the app's environments.

### 6.1 Available Services

> The custom services that are available on the app level, or the **Environments** page, are as follows:
> 
> * **Mendix Event Broker** – required to use [Mendix Business Events](/appstore/modules/business-events/) on Production apps

Reviewer: Not sure what this was supposed to be saying! I think perhaps it meant ***on* the Environments page**. But I don't think we need this. We also have a list with a single bullet point (for historical reasons!) so perhaps we should completely rewrite.
```suggestion
The custom services that are available on the app level.

Only one service is available: **Mendix Event Broker** – required to use [Mendix Business Events](/appstore/modules/business-events/) on Production apps.
```

Or something like that?

But I wonder if we need to mention the available services here at all? Since services are enabled on a per company basis different people might have different lists. Perhaps we should scrap the subsections altogether and just have the information on enabling?

Author: Removing this section makes sense to me. Do I need to verify that with anyone on the Cloud team, or is that change fine to just make as a docs decision?

Reviewer: I'm now puzzled by the suggestion I made as there are suddenly two bullets - but I think they are the same bullet duplicated.

Best thing is to get together with Quinn and look into the Event Broker. I think this is something that Johanna introduced and is part of Integration. Let me know if you need more information.

### 6.2 Enabling Custom Services

The Technical Contact can only see services that have been licensed for their company. If the Technical Contact cannot enable the service, this means that the service has previously been licensed, but the license has expired.

> Team members who have **Deploy, Publish, and Monitor** permission can see which services are enabled or disabled.

Reviewer: permission name?

Author: This is consistently capitalized (and sometimes italicized) in the docs, so I think it's the name, but I haven't managed to verify it in the product. Do you know where this permission is set?

Author: Nvm—just saw your comment about this above.
